IBM MQ test connection tool (#3)
instana/content: ibmmq/README.md

# MQ connection test tool

The purpose of the IBM MQ connection test tool is to test whether IBM MQ is configured and can be connected. You can select any of the following connection modes:

1. Local binding mode: Provide the `IBM MQ lib` path parameter. You can run the IBM MQ test tool on the same server where the IBM MQ runs.

2. Client binding mode: Provide the channel name and channel port to use the IBM MQ connection. If the security is enabled for the IBM MQ channel, then you need a username and password to log in to the channel. By using client binding mode, you can run the IBM MQ test tool on another server or on the same server where the IBM MQ runs. 

## Usage of the IBM MQ connection test tool

> - You need to export JAVA_HOME before the tool is invoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to export JAVA_HOME before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.
```

Author: `JAVA_HOME` is an environment variable. It's not a file. So I'll modify this sentence as
```suggestion
- You need to export the `JAVA_HOME` before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.
```

> - You can get the whole usage with the command: ./testMQ.sh -help 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can obtain the whole usage with the command: ./testMQ.sh -help 
```

Author: I mean the whole parameter's will be printed out.

Author: I'll remove the word `whole` if you like.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can obtain the usage with the command: ./testMQ.sh -help 
```

> - To use the IBM MQ connection test tool in the local binding mode, run the following sample command: 

Reviewer: Add an empty line after line no 15

./testMQ.sh -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]

For example, ./testMQ.sh -m qmName -a /opt/mqm/java/lib64 -q SYSTEM.ADMIN.ACCOUNTING.QUEUE

> - To use the IBM MQ connection test tool in the client binding mode, run the following sample command: 

Reviewer: Add an empty line after line no 20

> # IBM MQ test jar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# IBM MQ test JAR
```

The purpose of this jar is to test if IBM MQ is configured well and is able to be connected. There are two connection mode you can choose:

1. Local binding mode
With this mode, the only parameter you need to provide is the IBM MQ lib path when you want to try the IBM MQ connection. If you try this mode, you need to run this jar on the same server where the IBM MQ is running.

2. Client binding mode
With this mode, you need to provide the channel name and channel port to try the IBM MQ connection. If the IBM MQ channel is security enabled, username and password is also needed. If you try this mode, you can run this jar on other server or the same server that the IBM MQ is running. 

## Usage

> You can get the whole usge with the command:

Reviewer: What do mean by whole usage?

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
   java -jar ./testMQ.jar
```
  {: codeblock}
```

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - You need to export the `JAVA_HOME` before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.

Reviewer: If `JAVA_HOME` is a file then pls mention word file after `JAVA_HOME`.

Author: `JAVA_HOME` isn't a file but an environment variable.

Reviewer: Ok, then please write 'You need to export the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.'

> The output is like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to try local binding. The usage is: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage output of local binding is as follows: 
```

> - You can obtain the usage with the command: ./testMQ.sh -help 

Reviewer: can we write **./testMQ.sh -help** in codeblock?

Author: Yes, sure.

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
    java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]
```
{: codeblock}
```

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```bash
    java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]
```
{: codeblock}
```

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m <qmgr-name> -a <lib-path> [-q <queueName>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you want to try client binding. The usage is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage output of client binding mode is as follows:
```

> ```

Reviewer: Please write {: codeblock} after closing ```

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -h <host> -p <port> -c <channel> [-u <user>] [-z <password>] [-q <queueName>] [-k <keystore>] [-w <keystore-password>] -s [<ciph-suite>]

Reviewer: ``` 
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -h <host> -p <port> -c <channel> [-u <user>] [-z <password>] [-q <queueName>] [-k <keystore>] [-w <keystore-password>] -s [<ciph-suite>]
```
  {: codeblock}

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -h <host> -p <port> -c <channel> [-u <user>] [-z <password>] [-q <queueName>] [-k <keystore>] [-w <keystore-password>] -s [<ciph-suite>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -h <host> -p <port> -c <channel> [-u <user>] [-z <password>] [-q <queueName>] [-k <keystore>] [-w <keystore-password>] -s [<ciph-suite>]
```
  {: codeblock}
```

>     java -jar ./testMQ.jar -h <host> -p <port> -c <channel> [-u <user>] [-z <password>] [-q <queueName>] [-k <keystore>] [-w <keystore-password>] -s [<ciph-suite>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Here are the examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can refer following examples to view the usage:
```

> 1. Local binding mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Local binding mode:
```

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -a /opt/mqm/java/lib64 -q SYSTEM.ADMIN.ACCOUNTING.QUEUE

Reviewer: ```
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -a /opt/mqm/java/lib64 -q SYSTEM.ADMIN.ACCOUNTING.QUEUE
```
{: codeblock}

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -a /opt/mqm/java/lib64 -q SYSTEM.ADMIN.ACCOUNTING.QUEUE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -a /opt/mqm/java/lib64 -q SYSTEM.ADMIN.ACCOUNTING.QUEUE
```
{: codeblock}
```

> 2. Client binding mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client binding mode:
```

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -h 1.2.3.4 -p 1801 -c SYSTEM.AUTO.SVRCONN -u root -z dummyPwd -q AAA

Reviewer: ```
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -h 1.2.3.4 -p 1801 -c SYSTEM.AUTO.SVRCONN -u root -z dummyPwd -q AAA
```
{: codeblock}

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -h 1.2.3.4 -p 1801 -c SYSTEM.AUTO.SVRCONN -u root -z dummyPwd -q AAA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -h 1.2.3.4 -p 1801 -c SYSTEM.AUTO.SVRCONN -u root -z dummyPwd -q AAA
```
{: codeblock}
```

> java -jar ./testMQ.jar -m qmName -h 1.2.3.4 -p 1801 -c SYSTEM.AUTO.SVRCONN -u root -z dummyPwd -q AAA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ```

Reviewer: Please write {: codeblock} after closing ```

# IBM MQ connection test tool

The purpose of the IBM MQ connection test tool is to test whether IBM MQ is configured and can be connected. You can select either of the following connection modes:

1. Local binding mode: Provide the `IBM MQ lib` path parameter. You can run the IBM MQ test tool on the same server where the IBM MQ runs.

2. Client binding mode: Provide the channel name and channel port to use the IBM MQ connection. If the security is enabled for the IBM MQ channel, then you need a username and password to log in to the channel. By using client binding mode, you can run the IBM MQ test tool on another server or on the same server where the IBM MQ runs. 

## Usage of the IBM MQ connection test tool

> - You need to export the `JAVA_HOME` before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to export the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable before you use the IBM MQ connection test tool.
```
